Pinterest Tag - Revamp (#641)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/destinations/advertising/pinterest-ads.mdx

---
# slug: "/docs/advertising/pinterest-ads"
title: "Pinterest Tag"
description: Step-by-step guide on sending your event data from RudderStack to Pinterest.
---

# Pinterest Tag

> [Pinterest Ads Tag](https://ads.pinterest.com/) is a piece of code that, when added to your website, allows Pinterest to track your visitors as well as their actions. It gives you a detailed conversion report related to any and all customer activities like signups or buying a product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Pinterest Ads Tag](https://ads.pinterest.com/) allows Pinterest to track your visitors as well as their actions. It gives you a detailed conversion report related to all the customer activities like product signups, purchases, and more.
```

<div class="infoBlock">

For more information on finding the Pinterest Tag ID, refer to the <a href="#faq">FAQ</a> section below.
</div>

- **Custom Properties**: Use this field to add any custom properties which should be sent to Pinterest.

<div class="infoBlock">

For more information on using the custom properties, refer to the <a href="#custom-properties">Custom properties</a> section below.
</div>

- **Map Your Events To Pinterest Events**: Use this field to map your event to a specific Pinterest event.
- **Use device-mode to send events**: As this is a device mode-only destination, this setting is enabled by default and cannot be disabled.

- **Enable Enhanced Match on Page Load**: This setting is enabled by default and attaches the hashed email address on the initial page load. Any further calls made to Pinterest will be an Enhanced Match.

  When disabled, all the visits made to your site become anonymous. However, you can still identify any user by making the `identify()` call.

  **Enhanced Match**

  Rudderstack supports [Pinterest Enhanced Match](https://help.pinterest.com/en/business/article/enhanced-match) when the following conditions are met:

>     - A user is identified every time they visit your site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A user is identified every time they visit your site.
```

    - A user visits your site anonymously but is identified at some later stage by making an `identify()` call.

>   If you use Rudderstack's `identify()` method to enable Pinterest’s Enhanced Match, you can only collect this information for successive events. Pinterest does not update the values for the past events retroactively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use Rudderstack's `identify()` method to enable Pinterest’s Enhanced Match, you can only collect this information for successive events. Pinterest does not retroactively update the values for the past events.
```

If you make an `identify` call without `email`, the identification parameter will not be set.

A sample `identify` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4el9Zt1WSfVJIVo4GRlm", {
  name: "Alex Keener",
  email: "alex@example.com",
})
```

In the above example, the identification parameter will be set to `alex@example.com` and the successive calls will be an Enhanced Match.

<div class="infoBlock">

After an <code class="inline-code">identify</code> call is made, nothing appears in the network tab in your browser or in the tag helper extension. However, a hashed value for an <code class="inline-code">em</code> parameter is added in the next event call, in a JSON object encoded in the URL.

</div>

## Track

The <Link to="https://www.rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-api/api-specification/rudderstack-spec/track/">`track`</Link> call allows you to capture user actions along with the properties associated with these actions.

A sample `track` call is shown below:

```javascript

> rudderanalytics.track("Order Completed")

Reviewer: We can add a more descriptive `track` call here. For example:

```
rudderanalytics.track("Order Completed", {
  checkout_id: "C324532",
  order_id: "T1230",
  value: 15.98,
  revenue: 16.98,
  currency: "INR"
})
```

  testDimension: "true",
})
```
- **`PageVisit`**: RudderStack sends this event if only `name` field is present and drops any additional properties. The below sample event contains only `name` and is mapped to the Pinterest's `PageVisit` event:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.page("Best Seller", {
  path: "/best-seller/1",
})
```

## E-Commerce

RudderStack supports e-commerce conversion tracking for Pinterest. You can use the <Link to="/rudderstack-api/api-specification/rudderstack-ecommerce-events-specification/">RudderStack e-commerce specification</Link> for sending the events while instrumenting your site with the RudderStack SDK.

The following table mentions some sample `track` events mapped to the Pinterest events:

| RudderStack event | Pinterest event  |
| :--------------------- | :------------------- |
| Order Completed        | `Checkout`           |
| Product Added          | `AddToCart`          |
| Products Searched      | `Search`             |
| Product List Filtered    | `Search`           |

You can also track a custom event that you want to include in the conversion reporting. It will be mapped to a custom Pinterest event, for example:

> ```javascript

Reviewer: Similar to the above comment, we can add a more descript e-commerce `track` event here. `Order Completed` should be fine.
